motorcycles whether you've seen touring
adventure or race motorcyclists in the
street it's almost impossible not to
turn your head when they pass you
there's a mystery behind a bikers
appearance and the secret language they
use that makes us all curious picture
this you're driving in the carpool lane
and suddenly a motorcycle passes you you
see them flashing the two-finger signal
you can't help but think they're playing
carpool cops but that signal has a
deeper meaning before I continue would
you ever like to ride a motorcycle let
me know in the comments below
when motorcyclists meet while riding
they usually greet each other with the
two-finger peace gesture using their
left hand this means several things for
starters it's their way of greeting the
other rider they acknowledge their
presence and communicate their love for
riding the peace sign with the two
fingers pointing to the ground
translates to keep the rubber side down
it's the literal version of keeping the
tires in contact with the road or in
other words ride safe
however this gesture is used differently
in other countries let's take the UK for
example they drive on the left-hand side
of the road when a biker approaches from
the opposite direction
they'll be on the right-hand side they
can't greet each other with their
fingers because they'll have to lift
their hands off the throttle which is
located on the right side of the
handlebar not only is this inconvenient
it's also dangerous so their best way of
acknowledging the passing rider is by
nodding their heads now they could use
the left hand out to do the gesture but
the other motorcyclists won't see it
interestingly UK riders use their left
hand to make the two-finger or tilted
palm sign to passing cars and
motorcycles it's their way of saying
thank you to the people on the road who
give them space but have you ever seen a
rider putting their leg out while riding
now this gesture translates to several
things let me break it down for you
there are states in the US and other
countries around the world where weaving
through cars is legal sometimes when a
writer goes through slow-moving traffic
they put their left leg out to say thank
you to drivers who give them space now
here's why they do that in low speeds
motors
nickolas usually right in the first or
second gear during that time they need
to use the throttle which is located on
the right handle bar the clutch lever
which is on the left handlebar and the
rear brake that's positioned near the
right footrest so essentially the only
part of their body that's free is their
left foot some other times when
motorcycle is ride for hours their legs
get tired and they cramp up so bikers
stick one or both legs out while riding
to rest the same applies to their upper
body they move their hands to stretch
them out if they don't do that
the cramps can take away their
concentration sometimes you might even
see them pulling to the side of the road
to stretch and walk a bit before getting
back on their bike in a different
scenario if a biker comes across a road
hazard they might pull their leg out to
warn others but that's a rarer occasion
now for race riders putting their foot
out means something different in fact
when racing that gesture is called the
leg dangle during that time the race
riders pull their knee out Valentino
Rossi is the first rider who was
credited for using that technique in
2005 but he wasn't the first one during
the 90s Wayne Ranney Kevin Schwantz and
many others did similar moves extending
the leg towards the inside of a turn
helps the bike to stay in an upright
position while the rider turns in this
allows the braking to be used deeper
into the corner
another theory on why they do this is
because the extended leg lowers the
combined center of gravity on the
motorcycle and the rider this keeps the
rear end on the ground when braking in
this situation the inside leg acts as a
sail that helps slow down the bike when
it's turning into the corner the leg
dangle is something that every rider on
the street has probably tried and will
keep doing while they take on corners
but not to such a degree as racers when
riding having the correct gear is vital
for safety
granted most people think that a helmet
is more than enough but the best way to
stay protected is with full gear so this
is how it works we all know the helmet
protects your head it's made from hard
plastic on the outside shell
has softer foam on the inside in the
event of a fall
the writers helmet will absorb all the
force and keep their head protected
there are specific motorcycle pants and
jackets that do almost the same now
there are thousands of styles out there
and each of them is designed to meet
various weather conditions
let's take textiles for example when a
motorcyclist is riding and changeable
weather where rain is unpredictable
they'll most likely choose something
that keeps them dry one of the most
popular ones is the laminated textiles
here's how they work when it's pouring
the thing that stops the water from
reaching a biker skin is a waterproof
membrane it's a thin sheet of material
with pores that are so small they don't
allow water molecules to penetrate it
this sheet lies between the inner mesh
and the outer layer of the jacket
sometimes it can even be an insulated
liner on top of that there's a specific
coating called durable water repellent
that's layered on the outside part of
the jacket so when water drops on it it
just slides down even though the
molecules in the membrane don't allow
the water to pass through the material
is breathable so writers get a good
amount of air flow but that's not what
keeps them safe one of the biggest
advancements in motorcycle gear is the
inclusion of armor at first such
precautions were foreign to almost
everyone however adding padding to high
impact areas made it safer for
motorcyclists on the road the most
common areas that armor gets placed are
on the shoulders the back of the rider
the elbows hips and knees don't get me
wrong some of them are pretty
uncomfortable at first but the latest
ones are pure gold
they're made of intelligent molecules
that flex while the riders body moves on
the bike in case of an impact those
molecules lock together to absorb the
energy and protect the rider from the
fall when this materials molecules are
in flow upon touching it it's bendy and
moldable but during an impact it becomes
hard as a rock
after a while it goes back to its
flexible position and can be used
multiple times on
different motorcycle clubs well we're
still on the subject let's not forget
the leather pants and jackets that are
taken over in the motorcycling world
leather is the most durable material
when a writer wearing fabric or other
type gear has a fall there's a big
chance they'll need to replace their
jacket if it tears but leather can
handle a lot of Falls well I guess
that's good news for clumsy riders huh
Native Americans were the ones who
discovered the shielding properties of
leather and they wore it as protection
many studies were done about the
durability of fabrics in the event of a
collision they simulated a motorcycle
crash at 60 miles per hour they
attempted to measure how much time
materials can be dragged over the ground
until they tear leather surpassed all of
them granted some synthetic materials
came close but didn't win the downside
of it is that it's not waterproof
now gloves might seem like accessories
to some people but they're equally
important for starters they keep the
hands of the rider projected they also
help riders control their bike better
even in hot weather when their hands are
exposed they can get cold and numb so it
makes it more difficult to navigate the
bike on the other hand if someone's
hands become sweaty then handling the
motorcycle with a clammy palm is
dangerous so depending on the
temperature and the material gloves keep
the rider's hands warm and steady now
you might also notice that some bikers
wear skull rings and accessories it's as
if they came out of a movie set but
those signifiers have a very sentimental
story behind the motorcycle world in
America in 1945 the US Army was getting
rid of thousands of harley-davidson
motorcycles at the same time more than
half a million military veterans were
dismissed and returned home they often
felt isolated from society and that made
them rebellious the dismissed rebels
coupled up with the unwanted motorcycles
and form the traditional American biker
movement this gave them a new life
purpose during the 50s to 70s a lot of
movies were made showing skulls among
bikers other accessories in the movies
included the infamous leather jackets
and bandanna
even though they were portrayed as the
bad guys bikers took those references as
an inspiration and applied them to their
own biker groups the skulls symbolize
different things among different
cultures for most bones relate to
mortality for bikers it's the opposite
it symbolizes the circle of life whoa
was Mufasa really a biker yeah it shows
that the rider who accepted the skull
meant that they appreciate a new start
to life after the 70s skull rings showed
a motorcyclist loyalty to their comrades
it portrayed dedication to the biker
culture so bottom line keep the rubber
side down and may all your skulls be
smiling or something like that